                                                        Basic Computer Networking

IP: Internet Protocol - IP Address is the network address of the system on the internet.

MAC: Media Access Control - MAC Address is the unique identifier of each host and is associated with its NIC (Network Interface Card).
Basically it's a physical address of device or and system.

DNS Server: DNS stands for Domain Name System. It is a server which translates URL or web addresses into their corresponding IP addresses.

Main types of network

LAN: Local Area Network - LAN provides data communication within shorter distance and connects several devices such as computers and printers.

WAN: Wide Area Network - Wide Area Network is connecting two or more LANs together, generally across a wide geographical area.
WAN can be used to connect cities, states, or even countries.

OSI Model: OSI stands for Open Systems Interconnection. It is a reference model that specifies standards for communications protocols and also the
functionalities of each layer.

TCP/IP Model: TCP/IP stands for Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol and is a suite of communication protocols used to
interconnect network devices on the internet.

HTTP: HTTP: stands for Hypertext transfer protocol. This protocol allows us to access the data over the world wide web.
It transfers the data in the form of plain text.

HTTPS : Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (https) is a combination of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) with the Secure Socket Layer (SSL)/Transport
Layer Security (TLS) protocol. TLS is an authentication and security protocol widely implemented in browsers and Web servers.

TELNET: It establishes the connection between the local computer and remote computer in such a
way that the local terminal appears to be a terminal at the remote system.

SSH: The Secure Shell Protocol (SSH) is a cryptographic network protocol for operating network services securely over an unsecured network.
SSH provides a secure channel over an unsecured network by using a client–server architecture, connecting an SSH client application with an SSH server.

FTP: FTP stands for File Transfer Protocol. FTP is a standard internet protocol used for transmitting the files from one computer to another computer.

What is Port - A port is a virtual point where network connections start and end. Ports are software-based and managed by a computer's operating system.
Each port is associated with a specific process or service.

Ports range start from 0 to 65535

Some common/well/default known ports : 

21 - File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
22 - Secure Shell (SSH)
23 - Telnet
25 - Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)
53 - Domain Name System (DNS) service
80 - Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
443- HTTP Secure (HTTPS)

Proxy - A proxy server acts as a gateway between you and the internet.
How proxy works - When you send a web request, your request goes to the proxy server first.Then the proxy server
collect the response from the web server and forwards you to the web page data that you accesed in your browser. It can make changes to the data you send
and still get you the information you expected and it can change your ip address, so the web server doesn't know exactly where you are in this world.
It can encypt your data, so your data is unreadable in transmit.

VPN - A VPN (virtual private network) is one of the best tools for ensuring your internet privacy. A VPN encrypts your connection and keeps you hidden
while surfing, shopping, and banking online.

Task from home - Read about osi and tcp/ip model layers.